# Cricketers-Info

Mahendra Singh Dhoni born July 7, 1981 Indian cricketer whose rise to prominence in the early 21st century culminated in his captaincy of the Indian national team that won the one-day Cricket World Cup in 2011.
Virat Kholi is the first player in ICC cricket history to win all 3 ICC awards in a single year.
Rohit Sharma was born on 30 April 1987 in Bansod, Nagpur, Maharashtra. His mother, Purnima Sharma, is from Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. His father, Gurunath Sharma, worked as a caretaker of a transport firm storehouse. Sharma was raised by his grandparents and uncles in Borivali because of his father's low income. He would visit his parents, who lived in a single-room house in Dombivli, only during weekends. He has a younger brother, Vishal Sharma. 

## Mahendra Singh Dhoni
Mahendra Singh Dhoni was born on  July 7, 1981 Indian cricketer whose rise to prominence in the early 21st century culminated in his captaincy of the Indian national team that won the one-day Cricket World Cup in 2011.


## Virat Kohli
Virat Kohli is an Indian cricketer who plays for India national cricket team. He was born in Delhi, India on November 5, 1988. Virat is the first player in ICC cricket history to win all 3 ICC awards in a single year- ICC ODI player of the year, ICC Test player of the year and ICC Player of the year award in 2018. He is rated as one of the best batsmen in the world.
Virat Kholi is the first player in ICC cricket history to win all 3 ICC awards in a single year.

## Rohit Sharma
Rohit Sharma was born on 30 April 1987 in Bansod, Nagpur, Maharashtra. His mother, Purnima Sharma, is from Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. His father, Gurunath Sharma, worked as a caretaker of a transport firm storehouse. Sharma was raised by his grandparents and uncles in Borivali because of his father's low income. He would visit his parents, who lived in a single-room house in Dombivli, only during weekends. He has a younger brother, Vishal Sharma. 

He is now an Indian international cricketer who is the current captain of the Indian national cricket team. In the Indian Premier League he captains Mumbai Indians and is a right-handed opening batsman, and an occasional right-arm off break bowler. He plays for Mumbai in domestic cricket. In the IPL, the Mumbai Indians have won the tournament a record five times under his leadership.Sharma currently holds the world record for the highest individual score (264) in a one-day international match and is the only player to have scored three double-centuries in one-day internationals. He won the ICC Men's ODI Cricketer of the Year award in 2019 after he scored five centuries in the 2019 World Cup. Sharma has received two national honours, the Arjuna Award in 2015 and the prestigious Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna in 2020.Outside cricket, Sharma is an active supporter of animal welfare campaigns. He is the official Rhino Ambassador for WWF-India and is a member of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). He has worked with PETA in its campaign to raise awareness of the plight of homeless cats and dogs in India.

## Yuvraj Singh
Yuvraj Singh born on 12 December 1981 is a former Indian international cricketer who played in all formats of the game. He is an all-rounder who batted left-handed in the middle order and bowled slow left-arm orthodox, and is known for his aggressive batting style and all-round ability.


## KAPIL DEV

Kapil Dev was known for his energetic curved run-up and lethal outswingers as a result of that open-chested action. With the bat, he was an aggressive lower-middle order batsman who could cause carnage with the bat in an era before helmets, monster bats, or T20s. On the field, he was known for his inspirational leadership and athletic fielding. Perhaps the fittest and most disciplined man in the Indian dressing room at the time, Kapil is still remembered for that backward running catch of Sir Vivian Richards. Furthermore, Kapil Dev never missed a Test match due to fitness issues. It would be fair to say that his value to the team lay beyond numbers, but even the stats bow down before him: he remains the only man in the history of the game to have taken 400 wickets and scored more than 5000 runs in Test cricket - making him one of the greatest all-rounders of all time.

Kapil made his debut in 1978 and gradually started to produce performances of substance, especially in Test cricket. In his early years, he came across as a raw talent who was keen on just 'ripping his shoulder off' every ball, and 'tonking the leather off the ball' when he had the bat. The approach saw him score India's fastest Test half-century (off 33 balls) against Pakistan in his very third match. He came of age in the home series against Pakistan in 1979-80, where his all-round performances (32 wickets and 278 runs) helped India win 2 Tests. In the series, he became the youngest player to reach 100 wickets and 1000 runs in Test cricket. For the next two seasons, steady performances with the ball and useful contributions with the bat made him a certainty in the side and a viable candidate for captainship. Perhaps due to the nascent stages of the format or his priorities stacked up in favour of Test cricket, his ODI performances didn't quite live up to his antics in Test cricket.

And then, it happened. Kapil Dev replaced Sunil Gavaskar in the 1982-83 season and was appointed the captain for the 1983 World Cup to be played in England. He played one of the best ODI innings of all time in a must-win match against Zimbabwe at Tunbridge Wells, where India were reeling at 17 for 5. Without any official telecast of the match due to a BBC strike, Kapil strode out and tore apart the Zimbabwean bowling to hammer 175* off 138 balls - a lesson in counter-attacking cricket, and a lesson decades ahead of its time. The scarcely believable knock gave India the momentum which they seized, and went on to win the coveted vessel of victory for the first time, beating the West Indies in the league stages, the hosts in the semi-final, and finally, edging the mighty West Indies yet again in a low-scoring final at Lord's.